1. 新工业革命的关键在于实现从“中国制造”到“中国创造”再到“中国智造”的转变。
The key to the new industrial revolution is to make the shift from “made in China” to “created in China” and to “intelligent manufacturing in China”.
2. 中国要研发自主核心技术，以加速诸如新能源、航空技术等新兴产业的发展。
China should develop independent core technology to accelerate the growth of emerging sectors such as new energy and aerospace technology.
3. 中国完成了从低成本制造业经济向创新驱动型经济转型这一令人瞩目的壮举。
China has accomplished a remarkable feat in transforming itself from a low-cost manufacturing economy to an innovation-led one.
4. 根据官方数据，自本世纪初以来，中国在研发方面的投入迅速增长。
According to official data, Chinese investments in Research and Development have burgeoned since the turn of the century.
5. 创新正在引领中国乘着数字化浪潮发展成为全球科技中心。
Innovation is leading China to ride the wave of digitalization and evolve into a global tech hub.
6. 然而，也有一些事情，大部分国家不费吹灰之力就能办到，有些国家却完全无法领会。
And yet there are some things that most countries do without difficulty while others cannot get a grasp of them at all.
7. 令我一直感到惊讶的是，很多英国人把叉子反面朝上放，把食物放在叉子的背面保持平衡。
To my continuing amazement, many British people turn their fork upside down and balance the food on the back of it.
8. 中国有壮丽的自然风貌和数不尽的名胜古迹等丰富的旅游资源。 
China boasts rich tourism resources such as splendid landscapes and countless scenic spots and historic sites.
9. 独具特色的戏曲、音乐、舞蹈和享誉世界的美食，吸引着大批的国内外游客。
Unique traditional operas, music, dances as well as world famous cuisines have a strong appeal for both domestic and international tourists. 
10. 56个民族各具特色的生活方式已经成为中国文化的重要组成部分。
The distinctive lifestyles maintained by 56 ethnic groups have become an important part of Chinese culture. 
11. 尽管我在努力保持坚强，我不禁想知道你怎么能把我身体的每一寸都伤得如此之深。
While I try to stay tough, I can’t help but wonder how you can hurt every inch of my body so deeply.
12. 你是如此仁慈地让我把痛苦和快乐全都抛给你。
You’ve so graciously let me take both pain and pleasure out on you.
13. 曾经，在上海寻找户外跑步的好场地有些困难，因为这个城市的车流、人流非常密集。
Finding a good spot to run outdoors in Shanghai used to be a challenge because of the busy traffic and people flow.
14. 上海最好的跑步场地是一些公园以及许多道路旁宽阔并修整一新的人行道。
The best spots for running in Shanghai are some of the parks and the wide sidewalks that have been rebuilt along the roads.
15. 即使你最喜欢的场地略远也无须担心，便捷的公共交通可以帮你轻松抵达。
You do not need to worry even if your favorite running spot is a bit far away because a great public transport system makes it easy for you to get to it.
16. 以往，男性更多从事技术、工程等岗位，而女性更多从事相对稳定但薪酬回报不太高的岗位。 
In the past, men were more involved in jobs such as technology and engineering, while women more often held more stable but less paid posts.
17. 职位和行业等因素导致了男女薪酬差异，且这种差异还会随着工作年限增加而逐渐拉大。
Factors such as position and industry led to the pay gap between men and women, which would further widen with the increase in the years of working.
18. 很多过去被男性垄断的工作领域已经常能见到女性的身影。
Women could often be seen in many of the fields that used to be dominated by men.
19. 女性花很多时间仔细检查食物，看看它们是否新鲜，是否可食用，许多食物因此被丢弃。
Women spend a lot of time examining the food, checking whether it is fresh and edible, and they discard quite a lot of it.
20. 购物之行最后，女性带着各种各样的购物袋满载而归。
At the end of the shopping trip, women return home laden with a wide variety of shopping bags.
21. 文学作品的安抚、慰藉和疗愈功效，早在古希腊和古罗马时代就为人所知。
The understanding that literature can comfort, console, and heal has been around since ancient Greek and Roman times.
22. 矛盾的是，我们以为阅读让我们逃避自我，但最好的故事却让我们更深入自己的内心世界。
Paradoxically, we think we are escaping ourselves but the best stories take us back deeper into our interior worlds.
23. 其他研究表明阅读能改善睡眠质量，缓解轻度抑郁和焦虑症状。
Other studies have shown reading can improve sleep quality and ease mild symptoms of depression and anxiety.
24. 中国科幻小说将中国哲学融入故事并更注重体现集体智慧。 
Chinese science fiction integrates Chinese philosophy into stories and focuses more on the collective wisdom.
25. 中国科幻小说展现了中国人的世界观以及他们对自己的看法。
Chinese science fiction displays Chinese people’s outlook on the world and their views about themselves.
26. 这些故事反映了阶层与性别、智慧与创造力、移民与全球化等主题。
In the stories are themes of class and gender, of resourcefulness and creativity, and of immigration and globalization.
27. 金枪鱼沙拉三明治的起源是出于节俭的一时之举，不料却成了无节制的标志。
The tuna salad sandwich originated from an impulse to conserve, only to become a symbol of excess.
28. 快餐是社会经济、文化发展到一定阶段的产物。
Fast food came along with the social-economic and cultural development.
29. 1987年，首家西式快餐厅在北京开业，标志着现代快餐正式进入中国。
In 1987, the first Western-style fast food store opened in Beijing, marking the entry of modern fast food business into China.
30. 中国快餐业具有传统与现代、中式与西式快餐并存的特征。 
China’s fast-food industry features both tradition and modernity, Chinese style and Western style.
31. 光污染就像黑夜中的推土机，它捣毁了栖息地，扰乱了几十亿年造就的生态系统。
Light pollution is like the bulldozer of the night, wrecking habitat and disrupting ecosystems which are several billion years in the making.
32. 通过应用新的照明技术，关掉一部分现有的灯光，我们完全可以解决光污染这个问题。
Light pollution is readily within our ability to solve, by using new lighting technologies and turning off some existing lights.
33. 中国政府对保护国内乃至全球的生物多样性作出了积极贡献。 
Chinese government has made positive contributions to the protection of biodiversity at national and international levels.